good evening this is Wednesday August 6
90 days until the 2008 presidential
election as metaphors go Senator McCain
just got a flat after nearly a week
which he his surrogates in the RNC spent
mocking Obama for suggesting in response
to a question tire inflation is a way to
improve mileage and save lots of gas
Senator McCain has come out and endorsed
tire inflation is a way to improve
mileage and save lots of gas our fifth
story in the countdown Senator McCain
spinning his wheels another apt metaphor
the Great Inflation debate of 2008 now
officially the McCain tire rotation
having already handed out tire gauges
with the words Obama's energy plan to
the McCain traveling mediacorp last
night the Republican National Committee
arranged to send the same gift to the
reporters who cover senator Obama small
problem last night also when at a
so-called telat town hall meeting in
West Virginia Senator McCain said that
inflating your tires was the right thing
to do I agree with the American
Automobile Association we should all
inflamed our tires and i think that the
ottimo American Automobile Association
is right as well as others are but the
fact is that doesn't serve as a plan for
us to become independent on foreign oil
phrase it another way and Senator McCain
does not disagree with Senator Obama
could I mention that Senator Obama a
couple days ago said that we ought to
all inflate our tires and I don't
disagree with that the American
Automobile Association strongly
recommends it but but I I also don't
think that that's a way to become energy
independent even though data from the
Bush administration's Highway Department
suggested proper tire inflation and
engine tuning could save 800,000 barrels
of gas a day but new drilling could only
start producing 1.2 million barrels of
gas a day in about a decade from now
perhaps the McCain tire rotation
explaining why knock off and knock off
obama energy plan tire gauges are down
to only ten dollars on ebay the McCain
campaign asking a $25 donation for them
from anybody else a reminder that
similar pencil style models inscription
free still available on amazon.com for
89 cents
twenty-seven hundred percent markup
today in Indiana senator Obama
explaining how great an energy debate
would be without senator Obama in it
they've been going around sending tire
gauges to reporters saying Barack
Obama's energy plan well you know that
that sounded clever except last night
after all that Senator McCain actually
said he agreed that keeping our tires
inflated was a good idea
which makes sense because it turns out
NASCAR which knows something about tires
apparently said the same thing so did
the triple-a and so in the coming days
is going to be interesting to watch this
debate between John McCain and John
McCain senator Obama saying he'd prefer
to actually participate in the debate
about why Washington is broken because
senator McCain's energy plan reads like
an early Christmas list for oil and gas
lobbyists the Democratic National
Committee helping that Democrat with
that new attack ad today launching an
Exxon McCain 08 campaign complete with
buttons yard signs and bumper stickers
speaking of bumper stickers a blogger in
South Florida spotting a strange
decoration on the rear bumper of Senator
McCain's campaign bus in the parking lot
of the embassy suites hotel in Boca
Raton Florida photos he took a little
fuzzy but the logo is not fuzzy enough
for the McCain campaign obama 08 and
wonder if anybody to check to see if all
the tires on the bus were properly
inflated time now to call in our own
eugene robinson also associate editor
and columnist at the washington post
gene good evening good to see a cute so
even senator McCain's campaign bus has
taken something from the Obama campaign
I you know I guess you just have to say
that the air went out of the song
controversy let's look at that I'm sorry
oh no it was it was silly at the be you
know to begin with and maybe we're done
with it it clearly wasn't working for
McCain anymore and so they've decided to
declare a victory and get out I guess of
this of this mini battle but on the
other hand the the famous phrasing from
Aaron Sorkin during that the West Wing
was a presidential candidate should if
only because it's the easiest thing to
remember tell the truth the RNC clearly
had not abandoned its plan to hand out
more of these tire gauges to reporters
to keep milking this thing so we think
that Senator McCain decided to give up
this ghost last night or that he had
forgotten what he was supposed to
believe or is this another case where
the candidate does not speak for the
campaign what could be could be like
that third thing could be
no when we were here I was here that
night when we discovered that the
candidate indeed does not just speak for
the campaign I look you know one likes
to think that John McCain you know woke
up and said you know what are we doing
we're talking about tire inflation this
is silly I should end this and we should
have a noble campaign I think more
likely either he realized there somebody
told them that a really dumb thing to do
in the campaign is trying to convince
Americans about something about their
car that's utterly false you know like
saying you know never change your oil so
whatever you do never change the oil I
mean either no one would buy that at
this idea that you're going to campaign
on a platform of don't inflate your
tires is it is absurd there's no way
you're going to gain ground with it
we're fighting the logical fallacy here
again a happens then be happens that
does not mean a caused B but Obama did
say that it's like these guys take pride
in being ignorant do we think that
McCain heard about this or seller that's
where he went I could have had a correct
answer here it could that possibly have
influenced how this changed suddenly
well I I do think that that Obama's
counterpunching on on this issue if you
want to call it a tissue there's really
no two sides to it but if his
counterpunching what was effective I
think and you know it seemed clear to me
that after the initial titter of
amusement over the tire gauges it seemed
to me to start working against mccain it
just seemed trivial and and wrong and
just a just a bad you know kind of
detour for the for the bus to be on at
this juncture and the do not back up
there's tire damage on that's my version
of what you started us off with the term
at the counter punches though the new
lines that they came out with her McCain
should be debating himself and those
bumper stickers Exxon McCain the attempt
to time it came to Big Oil anyway you
turn do those counterpunches look like
nevermind counterpunches but perhaps
themes for the rest of the campaign or
they are they keepers well you know I
think you can't say that either of those
was some sort of knockout punch but from
the Obama campaign's
view you know it seems that maybe he's
got some traction now in trying to turn
this turn it around and make the
campaign about John McCain to the extent
that it ought to be and you know it
ought to be about both of them but so
far it's been about Obama I think this
helps make it more about John McCain
yeah and if we're wondering about the
the talking points on this being a
referendum on Obama we just saw bill oh
just went to that he said it this is a
yes or no vote on Obama so there you go
there's where there's the opposition
meme come into it already Gene Robinson
the Washington Post great thanks to your
time to 19 great to be here